Binary Search is defined as a searching algorithm used in a sorted array by repeatedly dividing the search interval in half. The idea of binary search is to use the information that the array is sorted and reduce the time complexity to O(log N). 

Conditions for when to apply Binary Search in a Data Structure:
To apply Binary Search algorithm:

1. The data structure must be sorted.
2. Access to any element of the data structure takes constant time.

Algorithm:

Start with the whole array.
Divide the array into two halves.
Compare the target value with the middle element of the array.
If the target value matches the middle element, the search is successful.
If the target value is less than the middle element, repeat the search process on the left half of the array.
If the target value is greater than the middle element, repeat the search process on the right half of the array.
Continue this process until the target value is found or the interval is empty.

How to Implement Binary Search?
The Binary Search Algorithm can be implemented in the following two ways

1. Iterative Binary Search Algorithm:
Here we use a while loop to continue the process of comparing the key and splitting the search space in two halves.

2. Recursive Binary Search Algorithm:
Create a recursive function and compare the mid of the search space with the key. And based on the result either return the index where the key is found or call the recursive function for the next search space.

Complexity Analysis of Binary Search:

Time Complexity: 
Best Case: O(1)
Average Case: O(log N)
Worst Case: O(log N)

Auxiliary Space: O(1), If the recursive call stack is considered then the auxiliary space will be O(logN).

Advantages of Binary Search:
1. Binary search is faster than linear search, especially for large arrays.
2. More efficient than other searching algorithms with a similar time complexity, such as interpolation search or exponential search.
3. Binary search is well-suited for searching large datasets that are stored in external memory, such as on a hard drive or in the cloud.

Drawbacks of Binary Search:
1. Binary search requires that the data structure being searched be stored in contiguous memory locations. 
2. Binary search requires that the elements of the array be comparable, meaning that they must be able to be ordered.

Applications of Binary Search:
1. Binary search can be used as a building block for more complex algorithms used in machine learning, such as algorithms for training neural networks or finding the optimal hyperparameters for a model.
2. It can be used for searching in computer graphics such as algorithms for ray tracing or texture mapping.
3. It can be used for searching a database.

